Blue Prism

The world is moving towards building new processes. This has fueled the absolute necessity for automation. Every organization, big or small, is aiming to automate its business processes in a way that it complements the manual strategizing and processes remain uninterrupted. Robotic Process Automation is a new-age technological marvel that is being utilized by enterprises to automate their tasks and process. In this RPA Blue Prism article, you will learn all the concepts of the popular RPA tool, Blue Prism and learn how it can be used for automation.

introduction To Robotic Process Automation

Robotic Process Automation is a methodology in which robots perform a set of tasks by following a process, without any human intervention. All of these technologies reduce the manual workforce, by giving them time and harnessing their talents in better ways.

Well, robotic process automation does not include actual robots automating your tasks. But, it is the RPA Tools/Vendors providing you a set of libraries and runtime environments for automating business processes.

Talking about RPA Tools, let me quickly brief you on the market leaders of RPA.

What is RPA Blue Prism?

Blue Prism Official Logo - RPA Blue Prism - EdurekaBlue Prism is an RPA Tool which holds the capability of virtual workforce powered by software robots. This helps the enterprises to automate the business operations in an agile and cost-effective manner. The tool is based on Java Programming Language and offers a visual designer with drag and drop functionalities.

Formed in 2001, this tool differs from the other tools in the market, by using a Top-Down approach. Also, Blue Prism offers a visual designer with no recorders, scripts or any intervention.

Secure & Accurate –  There is no limit to the number of processes which need to be executed in this tool. Blue Prism delivers secure and accurate results to any number of processes that you wish to automate.

Robust – It provides robust features like load balancing, data encryption, and end-to-end auditing. So, every change is audited and related back to the user related to it.

Scalable & Resilient – It allows scalability with central management. So, all the processes can be automated as per the need and can be monitored centrally.

24*7 Workforce – The tool is designed to work intelligently without a person physically monitoring every action occurring on the screen.

Analytics – Provides extended features to configure Dashboards so that the session information can be redirected to the Monitoring Systems.

Data Security and Data Abstraction – As the tool is designed to work autonomously, all the processing is performed and is stored in a data center. This provides a well-defined data
abstraction of data and process security.

Provide Cloud support – Provides working capacity support as per the business requirement. So, users have to just create workers on demand and manage them centrally.

Execution Intelligence – Robots connect to systems and react dynamically to the responses in the data on multiple environments.

RPA Blue Prism: Blue Prism Components
In this section of the RPA Blue Prism blog, I will introduce you to the various components/essentials of Blue prism.

The four main components of Blue Prism are:

Process Diagram
Process Studio
Object Studio
Application Modeller

Process Diagram

Process Diagrams are business workflows, that act as software programs. Since Blue Prism is based on Java, these diagrams utilize core programming concepts and create the operational process flows like flow charts. The diagrams are basically graphical representations of workflows, to create, analyze, modify and scale the business capability.

Process Studio

Process Studio is the area in which the Process Diagrams are created. This component of Blue Prism offers features such as business logic, object call, control loops, and variables. Each process created has the Main Page which gets executed first.

Object Studio

Almost all the enterprises need to have communication with external applications to automate tasks. Since it cannot happen in Process Studio, Object Studio is used. Object Studio is the area where Visual Business Objects(VBO) are created.  These objects are nothing but diagrammatical programs interacting with external applications which perform operations.

One Business Object provides an interface with only one external application. Also, let me tell you that each Object Studio, does not have a Main Page, but it does have two default pages organized as a flat group.

Robotic Process Automation Training

Application Modeller
Application Modeller is the functionality to create application models with Object Studio. This exposes the UI Elements of a target application to Blue Prism program.
